<link rel="stylesheet" href="../../../dist/css/wulechuan-styles-for-html-via-markdown--vscode.default.min.css">

# Wulechuan's HTML Article Themes

- Go back to [ReadMe.md](../../../ReadMe.md)


## Multilingual Editions of this Article

- [本文之简体中文版](../zh-hans-CN/supported-scenarios.md)


## Supported scenarios So Far

What are so-called scenarios? See [Introduction](./introduction.md#scenarios).

There're 4 scenarios supported so far.

1. A scenario for [Standalone HTML Files](#standalone-html-files)  (The Default)
2. A scenario for [Microsoft Visual Studio Code Markdown preview Page](#microsoft-visual-studio-code-markdown-preview-page)
3. A scenario for [The Firefox addon "Markdown Viewer Webext"](#the-firefox-addon-"markdown-viewer-webext")
4. A scenario for [Typora](#typora)




### Standalone HTML Files

Conceptly, it would be a standalone CSS file. **BUT** it has variantions.

Why are there so many variantions?

Well, first, as you might have read above, there are variations of wrapped, and non-wrapped.

Then, I've also prepared some CSS rules for table of contents(TOC) parts. And the TOC parts are optional, thus more variations exist.

Combining the factors mentioned above, there exist 4 variants of the "default" CSS style, in 8 files. They are:

1. **Selectors wrapped, no TOC**

    - CSS selectors are wrapped under the `.markdown-article` class name
    - CSS rules for table of contents parts are **excluded**

    Files:

    - `./dist/css/wulechuan-styles-for-html-via-markdown.default--wrapped--no-toc.css`
    - `./dist/css/wulechuan-styles-for-html-via-markdown.default--wrapped--no-toc.min.css`



2. **Selectors wrapped, with TOC**

    - CSS selectors are wrapped under the `.markdown-article` class name
    - CSS rules for table of contents parts are **included**,

    Files:

    - `./dist/css/wulechuan-styles-for-html-via-markdown.default--wrapped--with-toc.css`
    - `./dist/css/wulechuan-styles-for-html-via-markdown.default--wrapped--with-toc.min.css`

    > Don't forget to use the `table-of-contents-behaviours.js` together with either of these CSS files.



3. **Selectors non-wrapped, no TOC**

    - CSS selectors are **NOT** wrapped under any class name
    - CSS rules for table of contents parts are **excluded**

    Files:

    - `./dist/css/wulechuan-styles-for-html-via-markdown.default--no-toc.css`
    - `./dist/css/wulechuan-styles-for-html-via-markdown.default--no-toc.min.css`


4. **Selectors non-wrapped, with TOC**

    - CSS selectors are **NOT** wrapped under any class name
    - CSS rules for table of contents parts are **included**

    Files:

    - `./dist/css/wulechuan-styles-for-html-via-markdown.default--with-toc.css`
    - `./dist/css/wulechuan-styles-for-html-via-markdown.default--with-toc.min.css`


    > Don't forget to use the `table-of-contents-behaviours.js` together with either of these CSS files.



#### The HTML of the TOC

The markup structure of the said TOC parts are based on the output of [markdown-it-toc-done-right](https://www.npmjs.com/package/markdown-it-toc-done-right). For your references, the TOC markup structure is here:

```html
<html>
<body>
    <article class="markdown-article"> <!-- Additional wrapper desgined by me -->
        <!-- Anything generated by `markdown-it` goes here -->
    </article>
    <nav class="markdown-article-toc"></nav> <!-- Everything generated by `markdown-it-toc-done-right`, including the nav tag itself. But I've customized the className. -->
    <button class="markdown-article-toc-toggling-button"></button> <!-- Additional button desgined by me -->
</body>
</html>
```

> This tool does **NOT** provide any Javascript programs for converting a markdown file into an HTML file. I insist that the converting tool should exist apart from this one. Because the converting functionality is out of the scope of this tool.
>
> The existence of the CSS definitions over the TOC HTML parts generated outside this tool is acceptable to me. Otherwise, I should not include anything for Typora or Vistual Studio Code either, should I?
>
> BTW, the converting tool is not for public yet. 'Cause I'm not sure it's ready.

---


### Microsoft Visual Studio Code Markdown preview Page

File:

- `./dist/css/wulechuan-styles-for-html-via-markdown--vscode.default.min.css`

This one is specifically for the preview page generated inside Microsoft [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com).

#### Usage

Add a raw HTML line (see below) into your markdown file, and then preview the markdown file in your VS Code as normal.

The HTML line to embed into your markdown file looks like this:

```html
<link rel="stylesheet" href="{YOUR_REAL_FILE_PATH_HERE}/wulechuan-styles-for-html-via-markdown--vscode.default.min.css">
```

---





### The Firefox addon "Markdown Viewer Webext"

File:

- `./dist/css/wulechuan-styles-for-html-via-markdown--firefox-addon.default.css`

This one is specifically for the nice markdown processing addon of Firefox browser. The addon is named "[Markdown Viewer Webext](https://addons.mozilla.org/zh-CN/firefox/addon/markdown-viewer-webext/)".

#### Usage

1. **Make sure the said addon is installed already**
2. open your Firefox browser, press <kbd>Ctrl</kbd>+<kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>a</kbd> to open the Addon Manager page of firefox.
3. Find the addon named "**Markdown Viewer Webext**" and click it. Then you are led to the info page of the addon.
4. Click the "**Options**" tab. Then you see the panel of options of the addon.
5. Scroll down a bit the panel and find the section of title "**Custom CSS**". Below the title you see **a multi-lined text input box**.
6. Copy the entire content of the `...--firefox-addon.default.css` file, and paste into the input box, **replacing** the existing content of the input box.
7. Click anywhere outside the input box. This simple action will make the new content take effects. And you see a green text reading "**SAVED**" for an approval.
8. Open any markdown file with your Firefox browser and see the result.

> Note that the lookings of the TOC automatically generated by the addon is also customized by my CSS.

---



### Typora

File:

- `./dist/css/wulechuan-styles-for-html-via-markdown--typora.default.css`

[Typora](https://typora.io/) is a really great tool for both reading and writing markdown files. The app allows users to customize the look and feel of the markdown(HTML in fact) inside it.

See the official doc on the subject: [Install Theme](http://theme.typora.io/doc/Install-Theme/).

